[[[Foundamental Concepts]]]

Computer: (Hardward | Software)
    1. Central Processing Unit (CPU)
    2. Memory (Main Memory)
    3. Storage devices
    4. Input devices (e.g., mouse and keyboard etc)
    5. Output devices (monitors etc)
    6. Commmunication devices (moderns and network interface cards)

Bus:
    Computers components are interconnected by the 'bus'. The bus is a sort of subsystem or system of roads that are reposible for the communication between this components, transferring data and power. 

CPU:
    It retrieves and executes the instructions from the memory. The CPU has two components: a control unit and an arithmetic/logic unit. 

    Control Unit: 
        Controls and coordinate the actions of the other components in order to achieve the actions.
    
    Arithmetic/ Logic unit:
        Performs numeric operations (add/ sub/ multi/ divi) and logical operations.
    
Clock Speed:
    Hertz (Hz), Megahertz(MHz), Gigahertz(GHz)

Bits and Bytes:
    Bit/ Binary digits: 1 and 0; Electric Switch: On and off.
    Byte (Minimum Storage Unit): A byte consists of 8 bits/binary digits.

Encoding Schema: 
    a set of rules that govern how a computer interpret and translate the data into the form that the computer can actually work with (such as a ASCII, UTF-8).

Storage Capacity:
    1 KB = 1,000 bytes, 1MB = 1 million bytes, 1GB = 1 billion bytes, 1 TB = 1 trillion bytes.

Volatile Memory (Random-Access Memory RAM):
    RAM consists of an ordered sequence of bytes. Every byte in the memory has a unique address.

Communication Devices:
    Dial-up Modem (DM):
        Using a phone line (56,000 bits/per sec)
    
    Digital Subscriber Line (SDL):
        Using a standard phone line (20x faster than DM)
    
    Cable Modem:
        Using cablt TV line, faster than SDL.

    Network Interface Card (NIC):
        A device that connects the computer to a Local Area Network (LAN), usually 1,000 million bits/sec (mpbs)

Source Code/ Source Programme:
    A file or a program that is written using the high-level language. The program must be translated into machine code for execution.

Interpreter:
    Translates one statement from the source code into machine code or virtual machine code and executes the statement right away. (JIT concept in java)

Compiler:
    Translates the entire source code, and then executes the file. It's different from the interpreter.

Operating Systems:
    OS manages, controls annd schedules application program and activities on a computer.

OS Scheduling Operations:
    Multiprogramming:
        Multiple programs to run in parallel using the same CPU.
    
    Multithreading:
        A single program to execute multiple tasks in parallel.
    
    Multiprocessing:
        Using two or more processors together to perform subtasks concurrently and then combine the solutions of the subtasks into one single outputs.
